README.md, before:

# implicit_diffusion

TODO(b/385296186): Add a description for your new project, explain what is
being released here, etc... Additional, the following sections are normally
expected for all releases. Feel free to add additional sections if appropriate
for your project.

## Installation

Write instructions for how the user should install your code. The instructions
should ideally be valid when copy-pasted. You can combine this with the Usage
section if there's no separate installation step.

## Usage

Write example usage of your code. The instructions should ideally be valid when
copy-pasted, and will be used by your technical reviewer to verify that your
package functions correctly.

## Citing this work

Add citation details here, usually a pastable BibTeX snippet:

```latex
@article{publicationname,
      title={Publication Name},
      author={Author One and Author Two and Author Three},
      year={2024},
}
```

## License and disclaimer

Copyright 2024 DeepMind Technologies Limited

All software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (Apache 2.0);
you may not use this file except in compliance with the Apache 2.0 license.
You may obtain a copy of the Apache 2.0 license at:
https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

All other materials are licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License (CC-BY). You may obtain a copy of the CC-BY license at:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, all software and
materials distributed here under the Apache 2.0 or CC-BY licenses are
distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND,
either express or implied. See the licenses for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under those licenses.

This is not an official Google product.

Commit message:

Implicit diffusion open sourcing, allowing to reproduce experiments in:
Implicit Diffusion: Efficient Optimization through Stochastic Sampling
Marion et al., 2024
https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05468

PiperOrigin-RevId: 732105211
Change-Id: I237defbdccfdae218b17b7ad5d46722d405b22df

README.md, after:

# Implicit Diffusion

This is an implementation of the Implicit Diffusion algorithm, reproducing some
experimental results from the paper ([Implicit Diffusion: Efficient Optimization
through Stochastic Sampling](https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.05468), Marion et al.,
2024).

The code is written in JAX, and reproduces the results of the paper on reward
training of Langevin processes (section 5.1)

## Usage

In order to run the code, you can copy these files to your local machine and run
the following command, with at least the two following required flags:

```$ python main.py --file_path=your_file_path --expe_name=your_expe_name```

This will save the results in the folder `your_file_path/your_expe_name` (which
should already exist), in the form of three .npy files.

These files contain the following information:

- `hist_reward.npy`, a Numpy array of shape `(steps,)` containing the value of
the reward at each step.
- `hist_kl_grad.npy`, a Numpy array of shape `(steps,)` containing the value of
the norm of the gradient for the KL divergence at each step.
- `hist_theta.npy`, a Numpy array of shape `(steps, 6)` containing the value of
the parameters of the Langevin process at each step.

## Citing this work

In order to cite this work in your own work, you can use the following citation:

```
@article{implicitdiffusion,
      title={Implicit Diffusion: Efficient Optimization through Stochastic Sampling},
      author={Marion, Pierre and Korba, Anna and Bartlett, Peter and Blondel, Mathieu and De Bortoli, Valentin and Doucet, Arnaud and Llinares-L{\'o}pez, Felipe and Paquette, Courtney and Berthet, Quentin},
      year={2024},
}
```

## License and disclaimer

Copyright 2025 Google LLC

All software is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (Apache 2.0);
you may not use this file except in compliance with the Apache 2.0 license.
You may obtain a copy of the Apache 2.0 license at:
https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

All other materials are licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International License (CC-BY). You may obtain a copy of the CC-BY license at:
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/legalcode

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, all software and
materials distributed here under the Apache 2.0 or CC-BY licenses are
distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND,
either express or implied. See the licenses for the specific language governing
permissions and limitations under those licenses.

This is not an official Google product.
